[DOCS-2903] Update build-ndm-profile.md (#12456)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/network_monitoring/devices/guide/build-ndm-profile.md

  text: "Simulation data format reference"
---

> Datadog [Network Device Monitoring][1] (NDM) uses profiles for collecting metrics from network devices. These are defined narrowly by a MIB, or to collect metrics from a specific device make and model. This tutorial shows the steps for building a basic NDM profile that collects OID metrics from HP iLO4 devices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Datadog [Network Device Monitoring][1] (NDM) uses profiles for collecting metrics from network devices. These are defined narrowly by a management information base (MIB), or to collect metrics from a specific device make and model. This tutorial shows the steps for building a basic NDM profile that collects OID metrics from HP iLO4 devices.
```

> - NDM profiles use SNMP concepts. For basic details on SNMP, refer to the [NDM terminology][2] documentation.

Author: ```suggestion
- NDM profiles use SNMP concepts. For basic details on SNMP, see the [NDM terminology][2] documentation.
```

**Note**: `sysobjectid` can be a wildcard pattern to match a sub-tree of devices, for example: `1.3.6.1.131.12.4.*`.

### Generate a profile

> You can use [ddev][7], part of the Datadog integrations developer's toolkit, to create a profile from a list of MIBs. This script requires a list of ASN1 MIB files as input argument, and copies to the clipboard a list of metrics that can be used to create a profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use [ddev][7], part of the Datadog integrations developer's toolkit, to create a profile from a list of MIBs. This script requires a list of ASN1 MIB files as input arguments, and copies to the clipboard a list of metrics used to create a profile.
```

```console
$  ddev meta snmp generate-profile-from-mibs --help
```

#### Add nodes

Use `-f, --filters` as an option to provide a collection of MIB names and their node names to be included.

> For example, using this option will generate a profile that includes the `system`, `interfaces` and `ip` nodes from `RFC1213-MIB`, no node from `CISCO-SYSLOG-MIB`, and the node `snmpEngine` from `SNMP-FRAMEWORK-MIB`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, using this option generates a profile that includes the `system`, `interfaces` and `ip` nodes from `RFC1213-MIB`, no node from `CISCO-SYSLOG-MIB`, and the node `snmpEngine` from `SNMP-FRAMEWORK-MIB`.
```

**Note**: `sysobjectid` can be a wildcard pattern to match a sub-tree of devices, for example: `1.3.6.1.131.12.4.*`.

> ### Generate a profile file from a collection of MIBs

Reviewer: So it feels like this whole new section could actually be steps - with what you input as the options and then what it outputs as the results, but I am not completely positive because I am not familiar enough with how to actually do what is in the rest of the guide. It just feels like it is missing context that will become clear if it is in steps.

Author: Reorganized this section to be more streamlined. @apigirl Ready for final review! 🎉

You can use [ddev][7], part of the Datadog integrations developer's toolkit, to create a profile from a list of mibs.

```console
$  ddev meta snmp generate-profile-from-mibs --help
```

> This script requires a list of ASN1 MIB files as input argument, and copies to the clipboard a list of metrics that can be used to create a profile.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This script requires a list of ASN1 MIB files as input arguments, and copies to the clipboard a list of metrics that can be used to create a profile.
```

### Options

`-f, --filters` is an option to provide the path to a YAML file containing a collection of MIB names and their list of node names to be included.

For example, include `system`, `interfaces` and `ip` nodes from `RFC1213-MIB`, no node from `CISCO-SYSLOG-MIB`, and node `snmpEngine` from `SNMP-FRAMEWORK-MIB`.

```yaml
RFC1213-MIB:
- system
- interfaces
- ip
CISCO-SYSLOG-MIB: []
SNMP-FRAMEWORK-MIB:
- snmpEngine
```

> **Note**: Each `MIB:node_name` correspond to exactly one and only one OID. However, some MIBs report legacy nodes that are overwritten. To resolve, edit the MIB by removing legacy values manually before loading them with this profile generator. If a MIB is fully supported, it can be omitted from the filter as MIBs not found in a filter are fully loaded. If a MIB is **not** fully supported, it can be listed with an empty node list, such as `CISCO-SYSLOG-MIB` in the example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: Each `MIB:node_name` corresponds to exactly one OID. However, some MIBs report legacy nodes that are overwritten. To resolve, edit the MIB by removing legacy values manually before loading them with this profile generator. If a MIB is fully supported, it can be omitted from the filter as MIBs not found in a filter are fully loaded. If a MIB is **not** fully supported, it can be listed with an empty node list, such as `CISCO-SYSLOG-MIB` in the example.
```

`-a, --aliases` is an option to provide the path to a YAML file containing a list of aliases to be used as metric tags for tables, in the following format:

```yaml
aliases:
- from:
    MIB: ENTITY-MIB
    name: entPhysicalIndex
  to:
    MIB: ENTITY-MIB
    name: entPhysicalName
```

> MIBs tables most of the time define one or more indexes, as columns within the same table, or columns from a different table and even a different MIB. The index value can be used to tag table's metrics. This is defined in the `INDEX` field in `row` nodes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most of the time, MIB tables define one or more indexes as columns within the same table or columns from a different table and even a different MIB. The index value can be used to tag table's metrics. This is defined in the `INDEX` field in `row` nodes.
```

```txt
entPhysicalContainsEntry OBJECT-TYPE
SYNTAX      EntPhysicalContainsEntry
MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
STATUS      current
DESCRIPTION
        "A single container/'containee' relationship."
INDEX       { entPhysicalIndex, entPhysicalChildIndex }  <== this is the index definition
::= { entPhysicalContainsTable 1 }
```

or, for example, its JSON dump, where `INDEX` is replaced by `indices`:

```json
"entPhysicalContainsEntry": {
    "name": "entPhysicalContainsEntry",
    "oid": "1.3.6.1.2.1.47.1.3.3.1",
    "nodetype": "row",
    "class": "objecttype",
    "maxaccess": "not-accessible",
    "indices": [
      {
        "module": "ENTITY-MIB",
        "object": "entPhysicalIndex",
        "implied": 0
      },
      {
        "module": "ENTITY-MIB",
        "object": "entPhysicalChildIndex",
        "implied": 0
      }
    ],
    "status": "current",
    "description": "A single container/'containee' relationship."
  },
```

Indexes can be replaced by another MIB symbol that is more human-readable. You might prefer to see the interface name versus its numerical table index. This can be achieved using `metric_tag_aliases`.

### Add unit tests

> Add a unit test in `test_profiles.py` to verify that the metric is successfully collected by the integration when the profile is enabled. These unit tests are mostly used to prevent regressions and help with maintenance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a unit test in `test_profiles.py` to verify that the integration successfully collects the metric when the profile is enabled. These unit tests are mostly used to prevent regressions and help with maintenance.
```

For example:

```python
def test_hp_ilo4(aggregator):
    run_profile_check('hp_ilo4')

    common_tags = common.CHECK_TAGS + ['snmp_profile:hp-ilo4']

    aggregator.assert_metric('snmp.cpqHeSysUtilLifeTime', metric_type=aggregator.MONOTONIC_COUNT, tags=common_tags, count=1)
    aggregator.assert_all_metrics_covered()
```

This test initially fails as there is no simulation data.

```console
$ ddev test -k test_hp_ilo4 snmp:py38
[...]
======================================= FAILURES ========================================
_____________________________________ test_hp_ilo4 ______________________________________
tests/test_profiles.py:1464: in test_hp_ilo4
    aggregator.assert_metric('snmp.cpqHeSysUtilLifeTime', metric_type=aggregator.GAUGE, tags=common.CHECK_TAGS, count=1)
../datadog_checks_base/datadog_checks/base/stubs/aggregator.py:253: in assert_metric
    self._assert(condition, msg=msg, expected_stub=expected_metric, submitted_elements=self._metrics)
../datadog_checks_base/datadog_checks/base/stubs/aggregator.py:295: in _assert
    assert condition, new_msg
E   AssertionError: Needed exactly 1 candidates for 'snmp.cpqHeSysUtilLifeTime', got 0
[...]
```

> ### Add simultation data

Author: ```suggestion
### Add simulation data
```
